Options
=======

The options of this recipe are not fixed, as many of those are used exclusively
within the settings template file (see Templating_).

Here we present the options that have an impact on the recipe aswell:

project
    This identifies a python module (in dotted notation) that can serve as
    project package. The bare minimum for a project package is to contain a
    ``urls.py`` file and a ``templates`` directory. It is mandatory unless both
    the ``urlconf`` and ``templates`` option are defined.

urlconf
    Identifies the module that contains the url definition: if omitted the file
    ``urls.py`` inside the module given as ``project`` is used.

templates
    Identifies the templates directory. If omitted, the directory named
    ``templates`` located in the module given as ``project`` is used.

static-directory
    Identifies the folder into which static content (images, CSS and
    Javascripts) will go. Relatives path are considered relative to the
    buildout directory. The directory will be created if not present, and
    nothing will be done if it already exists. If omitted, defaults to
    ``static``.

media-directory
    Identifies the folder into which uploaded files will go. If omitted,
    defaults to ``media``.

settings-template
    If specified, the given template is used to generate the ``settings.py``
    file, if not provided, the default template will be used. See Templating_
    for more details.

settings-template-extension
    If specified, the given template is appended to the template specified by
    ``settings template`` or to the default one.

static-origin
    If specified, defines directories from which to copy the static files that
    have to go in ``static-directory``: see `Static origin`_ for more details.

link-static-origin
    Boolean value, defaults to ``false``. If set, the files will be symlinked
    instead of copied. Does work only on unix.

media-origin
    If specified, defines directories from which to copy the data files that
    have to go in ``media-directory``: see ``static-origin`` option for
    details.

base-settings
    A settings module (only absolute imports) that is extended by the current
    settings, for example ``my.module.settings``.
    If specified, the defaults for ``apps``, ``middleware`` and
    ``template-loaders`` becomes an empty string (resulting into them not being
    written at all).
    It is unset by default.

wsgi
    Defaults to ``false``. If set to ``true`` (or ``on`` or ``1``) creates a
    script in ``parts/$partname`` named ``$partname.wsgi.py`` that can be used
    as WSGI script in Apache or other WSGI enabled webserver.

wsgi-logfile
    If set, the log will be redirected here: defaults to not being set.

coding
    The encoding of the resulting settings file. Defaults to ``utf-8``.


Advanced options
----------------

.. note:: All these options are optional and should not be necessary under
          normal conditions, but might be useful to advanced users.

The following advanced options are supported:

extra-paths
    A number of non-standard paths where additional python modules are located.

pth-files
    A number of pth-files from which to load additional python modulesthat
    should be present in the buildout.


Templating
==========

The ``settings.py`` file is generated by interpolating the options of the
buildout section with a template, be it the default one or the one provided by
the ``settings-template`` option.

The template must be a valid Tempita_ template, to which the whole options of
the current buildout section is passed as namespace, integrated as follow:

1. In the options name, all minuses (``-``) are converted to underscores
   (``_``)

2. The option ``name`` and ``secret`` are added, respectively mapping to the
   buildout section name and to a randomly-generated secret [#]_.

3. A serie of functions is added to the namespace to simplify the handling of
   some situations, see below for more details.


Functions
---------

A certain number of functions can be used inside the templates:

absolute_url
    Takes a path and, if it is relative, concatenates it with the buildout
    location to make it absolute.

listify
    Takes a chunk of data, splits it into lines, trims those lines and returns
    the obtained list, from which void strings are purged.

rfc822tuplize
    This function is quite specialized and takes any string in the form
    ``Full Name <email.address@example.com>`` into a tuple composed by the full
    name and the mail address. It will return a tuple with the unchanged data
    if the data fed in does not conform to the specifics.

boolify
    This functions returns ``True`` if the data fed is is any of ``true``,
    ``on``, ``1`` (case- insensitive) and ``False`` otherwise

join
    Equivalent of string's ``join()`` method, with the data to join as first
    parameter, the *infix* as second and two optional parameters *prefix*
    (added just one to the beginning) and *suffix* (added just one to the end)

dump
    An alias of ``repr``.


Default template options
------------------------

The default template accepts a number of options. They are to be considered all
optional, as sensible defaults will be provided if omitted.

database
    The url of the default Django database, in the form
    ``<backend>://(<user>:<password>@)(<host>)(:<port>)/<name>((<options>))``.
    Parenthesized values are to be considered as optional.  It is to be noted
    that the options are expected to be enclosed within parentesis (``(``),
    separated by comma and in the form ``<name>=<value>``, and that ``user``,
    ``password``, ``name`` and option names and values must be form-urlencoded.
    An example url might be:
    ``django.db.backends.mysql://usr:pwd@localhost:3306/mydb(opt1=val1,opt2=val2)``
    where ``usr``, ``pwd``, ``mydb`` etc should be replaced by your
    configuration values.
    Defaults to
    ``django.db.backends.sqlite3:///${buildout:directory}/storage.db``

additional-databases
    A list of databases in the form ``name=url``, each on one line, where
    ``name`` is the Django-internal database name and ``url`` is the database
    url in the same form as that provided by ``database``

media-url
    The static content prefix path. Defaults to ``media``

admin-media
    The admin only static content prefix path. Defaults to ``admin_media``

timezone
    The timezone: defaults to ``America/Chicago``

language-code
    The language code: defaults to ``en-us``

server-mail
    The email address from which site-generate mails come from. Defaults to
    ``root@localhost``

admins
    The list of site admins, in *RFC822* form. Defaults to
    ``John Smith <root@localhost>``

managers
    The list of managers: same as for *admins*. Defaults to copy the value of
    *admins*

middleware
    The list of middleware classes to load. If an empty string, the value is
    not written at all.

apps
    The list of apps to load. If empty, the value is not written at all.

template-loaders
    The list of template loaders to use. If empty, the value is not written at
    all.

debug
    If ``true``, activates debug mode. Defaults to ``false``

internal-ips
    The IPs that are allowed to see full stack traces when in debug. Defaults
    to ``127.0.0.1``

site-id
    The Django site id. Defaults to unset.

template-context-processors
    The Django template context processors. Defaults to unset.

authentication-backends
    The Django authentication backends. Defaults to unset

languages
    A list of supported languages in the form ``code Fullname``, for example
    ``en-us English (US)``. Defaults to unset.

mail-backend
    The mail backend to use. Defaults to
    ``django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend``.

mail-filepath
    The directory to use if the file mail backend is used [#]_.

smtp-host
    The SMTP host to use when sending mail. Defaults to unset.

smtp-port
    The SMTP server port. Defaults to unset.

smtp-user
    The username to use to connect to the SMTP server. Defaults to unset.

smtp-password
    The password to use to connect to the SMTP server. This is not valid if
    ``smtp-user`` is not set aswell. Defaults to unset.

smtp-tls
    Whether TLS should be used when connecting to the SMTP server (boolean
    option). Defaults to ``false``.

site-domain
    The site domain. Defaults to unset.

site-name
    The site title. Defaults to unset.

cache-backend
    The cache backend. Defaults to ``locmem:///``.

cache-timeout
    The cache timeout in seconds. Defaults to ``60*5``.

cache-prefix
    The cache prefix (prefixed at all cache IDs). Defaults to ``Z``.

fixture-dirs
    The directories into which search for fixtures. Not set by default.

Deprecated options
------------------

These options are still supported within templates, but they are pending
deletion.

database-engine
    The database engine to use.

database-name
    The name of the database to use.

database-user
    The username to use when connecting to the database server. Defaults to
    empty string.

database-password
    The password to use when connecting to the database server. Defaults to
    empty string.

database-host
    The host on which the database server resides. Defaults to empty string.

database-port
    The port on which the database server accepts connections. Defaults to
    empty string.


Example usage
=============

As first thing, we need to have a Django project egg around. We have made a
very simple one just for testing and we have created a source distribution for
it located in ``packages``.

This is of course not the only way you can distribute and obtain the project
egg: for example, during developement, it is recommended to use `mr.developer`_
for that.

That cleared, we create the most simple buildout conceivable using this recipe ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... """)

And run it ::

    >>> print "start\n", system(buildout)
    start
    ...
    Installing django.
    Getting distribution for 'dummydjangoprj'.
    ...
    django: Generating settings in ...
    django: Making empty media directory ...
    django: Creating script at ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>

This generated some files and directories for us:

1. A Django ``manage.py`` wrapper located at ``bin/django``

2. A media directory (empty) at ``static`` (default option)

3. A settings file located in ``parts/django/settings.py``

So, as we can see, we have a ``static`` directory in the root, a ``bin/django``
script and a ``parts/django`` part ::

    >>> ls(sample_buildout)
    -  .installed.cfg
    -  .secret.cfg
    d  bin
    -  buildout.cfg
    d  develop-eggs
    d  eggs
    d  media
    d  packages
    d  parts
    d  src
    d  static
    >>> ls('bin')
    -  buildout
    -  django
    >>> ls('parts')
    d  django

Let's look at this first ::

    >>> ls('parts', 'django')
    -  settings.py
    >>> cat('parts', 'django', 'settings.py')
    # coding=utf-8
    SERVER_EMAIL = 'root@localhost'
    ADMINS = (
    <BLANKLINE>
        ('John Smith', 'root@localhost'),
    )
    MANAGERS = ADMINS
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    DATABASES = {'default': {'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3', 'NAME': '/sample-buildout/storage.db'}}
    <BLANKLINE>
    TIME_ZONE = 'America/Chicago'
    <BLANKLINE>
    LANGUAGE_CODE = 'en-us'
    <BLANKLINE>
    STATIC_ROOT = '.../static'
    <BLANKLINE>
    STATIC_URL = '/static/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    MEDIA_ROOT = '.../media'
    <BLANKLINE>
    MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    ADMIN_MEDIA_PREFIX = '/admin_media/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    SECRET_KEY = '...'
    <BLANKLINE>
    ROOT_URLCONF = 'dummydjangoprj.urls'
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
        '.../dummydjangoprj/templates',
    )
    <BLANKLINE>
    EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'
    EMAIL_USE_TLS = False
    <BLANKLINE>
    CACHE_BACKEND = 'locmem:///'
    CACHE_TIMEOUT = 60*5
    CACHE_PREFIX = 'Z'

As you can see, this is pretty much the standard Django ``settings.py`` as
created by Django's ``django-admin``. It has the peculiarity of not residing in
a module, however, but is loaded at run time into the appropriate manage script
as a *ghost* module named ``_django_settings``.

Let's have a look at the manage script ::

    >>> cat('bin', 'django')
    #!...
    <BLANKLINE>
    import sys
    sys.path[0:0] = [
      ...
      ]
    <BLANKLINE>
    import djc.recipe.manage
    <BLANKLINE>
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        djc.recipe.manage.main('.../parts/django/settings.py')

As we can see, the ``main()`` function of the ``manage`` module is called,
passing in the file with the settings as only argument.

Template overriding
-------------------

As it was said in Templating_, the default template can be overridden or
extended.

Let's start by extending it: ::

    >>> write('template-extension.py.in',
    ... """
    ... # Here we can extend the template, using variables pulled in from the
    ... # buildout section, with the dashes converted to underscores
    ... MY_CONFIG_VARIABLE = '{{config_variable_one}}'
    ... """)
    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... settings-template-extension = template-extension.py.in
    ... config-variable-one = test
    ... """)

Launch the buildout and then take a look at the generated ``settings.py``
file ::

    >>> print system(buildout)
    Uninstalling django.
    Installing django.
    ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>
    >>> cat('parts', 'django', 'settings.py')
    # coding=utf-8
    SERVER_EMAIL = 'root@localhost'
    ADMINS = (
    <BLANKLINE>
        ('John Smith', 'root@localhost'),
    )
    MANAGERS = ADMINS
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    DATABASES = {'default': {'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3', 'NAME': '/sample-buildout/storage.db'}}
    <BLANKLINE>
    TIME_ZONE = 'America/Chicago'
    <BLANKLINE>
    LANGUAGE_CODE = 'en-us'
    <BLANKLINE>
    STATIC_ROOT = '.../static'
    <BLANKLINE>
    STATIC_URL = '/static/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    MEDIA_ROOT = '.../media'
    <BLANKLINE>
    MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    ADMIN_MEDIA_PREFIX = '/admin_media/'
    <BLANKLINE>
    SECRET_KEY = '...'
    <BLANKLINE>
    ROOT_URLCONF = 'dummydjangoprj.urls'
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
        '.../dummydjangoprj/templates',
    )
    <BLANKLINE>
    EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'
    EMAIL_USE_TLS = False
    <BLANKLINE>
    CACHE_BACKEND = 'locmem:///'
    CACHE_TIMEOUT = 60*5
    CACHE_PREFIX = 'Z'
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    # Extension template template-extension.py.in
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    # Here we can extend the template, using variables pulled in from the
    # buildout section, with the dashes converted to underscores
    MY_CONFIG_VARIABLE = 'test'

As you can see, the aditional template has been simply appended to the default,
and the variable ``config-variable-one`` has been substituted.

If, instead, we totally override the template: ::

    >>> write('template.py.in',
    ... """
    ... # Total override
    ... FOODS = (
    ...     {{join(listify(foods), "',\\n    '", "'", "',")}}
    ... )
    ... """)
    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... settings-template = template.py.in
    ... foods =
    ...     spam
    ...     spam
    ...     eggs
    ...     spam
    ... """)


Launch the buildout and then take a look at the generated ``settings.py``
file ::

    >>> print system(buildout)
    Uninstalling django.
    Installing django.
    ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>
    >>> cat('parts', 'django', 'settings.py')
    # Total override
    FOODS = (
        'spam',
        'spam',
        'eggs',
        'spam',
    )

As you can see, the builtin template has been totally discarded.

Static origin
=============

Static files are generally not served through Django_, but instead the
front-end web server takes care to serve them by exposing a directory on the
filesystem to the web.

However, many static files (think ``.js`` or ``.css``) are part of the
functionality of a project or application, and would be interesting to be able
to distribute them alongside the code.

.. note:: The method here described works only for applications and packages
   that are not installed as zipped modules: for example the egg default format
   is a zipped file that does not get extracted after installation unless a
   proper option is passed to ``easy_install``

The relevant resources can be included in the distributed package and use of
the ``static-origin`` option will allow them to be copied into the
``static-directory`` folder (see Options_).

A similar feature is present for media files (e.g. image uploads) as well
(option ``media-origin``, which ends up into ``media-directory``).

``static-origin`` can contain a list of static file sources, and each item of
the list can be either in the form ``package:directory`` or
``package:directory:destination``; ``package`` being the full dotted name of
the importable module, ``directory`` the path to the directory inside the
module containing static data, and ``destination`` an optional subdirectory
inside ``static-directory`` where to copy the files.

Let's then begin from the first, simple case, with a single source of static
data.

The source of static data is the package ``dummydjangoapp1``, residing as a
developement package inside ``src``. ::

    >>> ls('src', 'dummydjangoapp1', 'dummydjangoapp1', 'static')
    -  lib1.js
    -  main.css
    >>> cat('src', 'dummydjangoapp1', 'dummydjangoapp1', 'static', 'main.css')
    body { font-family: "Helvetica" "Arial" sans-serif; }

Let's create a buildout config and run it ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ... develop = src/dummydjangoapp1
    ... eggs = dummydjangoapp1
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... static-directory = static
    ... static-origin = dummydjangoapp1:static
    ... """)
    >>> rmdir('static')
    >>> print system(buildout)
    Develop: '.../dummydjangoapp1'
    ...
    Uninstalling django.
    Installing django.
    ...
    django: Making media directory '.../static'
    ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>

And now let's see what's in ``static`` ::

    >>> ls('static')
    -  lib1.js
    -  main.css
    >>> cat('static', 'main.css')
    body { font-family: "Helvetica" "Arial" sans-serif; }

Let's now try using *two* sources: the second is another dummy app, named
``dummydjangoapp2``, that like the first one resides in ``src``.

Let's see what's in its ``static`` for us: ::

    >>> ls('src', 'dummydjangoapp2', 'dummydjangoapp2', 'static')
    -  lib2.js
    -  main.css

It seems this app too defines a ``main.css``, so let's look at the content: ::

    >>> cat('src', 'dummydjangoapp2', 'dummydjangoapp2', 'static', 'main.css')
    h1 { color: #92B8D8; }

But this poses a problem! What happens when I put this as second source, and
both define ``main.css``? Well, the intuitive thing to do here is probably to
override the file, so that the source at the bottom is the top *skin layer*.

So if we have this buildout ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ... develop =
    ...     src/dummydjangoapp1
    ...     src/dummydjangoapp2
    ... eggs =
    ...     dummydjangoapp1
    ...     dummydjangoapp2
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... static-directory = static
    ... static-origin =
    ...     dummydjangoapp1:static
    ...     dummydjangoapp2:static
    ... """)

It is reasonable to expect that, after running it, the content of the
``main.css`` file is the one provided by the version held by
``dummydjangoapp2`` rather than the one held by ``dummydjangoapp2``.

A quick run and inspect confirms this: ::

    >>> rmdir('static')
    >>> print system(buildout)
    Develop: '.../dummydjangoapp1'
    ...
    Uninstalling django.
    Installing django.
    ...
    django: Making media directory '.../static'
    ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>
    >>> ls('static')
    -  lib1.js
    -  lib2.js
    -  main.css
    >>> cat('static', 'main.css')
    h1 { color: #92B8D8; }

However, I might not want the ``main.css`` override to happen, or any other
clash between applications, for that matter. That is easily solved by a
buildout written like this ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ... develop =
    ...     src/dummydjangoapp1
    ...     src/dummydjangoapp2
    ... eggs =
    ...     dummydjangoapp1
    ...     dummydjangoapp2
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... static-directory = static
    ... static-origin =
    ...     dummydjangoapp1:static:app1
    ...     dummydjangoapp2:static:app2
    ... """)

It is to be noticed that the ``static-origin`` values have now three elements,
the latter being the destination directory, which is defined as a subdirectory
of ``static``: in this case, both apps live in their subdirectory and no clash
happens ::

    >>> rmdir('static')
    >>> print system(buildout)
    Develop: '.../dummydjangoapp1'
    ...
    Uninstalling django.
    Installing django.
    ...
    django: Making media directory '.../static'
    ...
    Generated script ...
    <BLANKLINE>
    >>> ls('static')
    d  app1
    d  app2
    >>> ls('static', 'app1')
    -  lib1.js
    -  main.css
    >>> cat('static', 'app1', 'main.css')
    body { font-family: "Helvetica" "Arial" sans-serif; }
    >>> ls('static', 'app2')
    -  lib2.js
    -  main.css
    >>> cat('static', 'app2', 'main.css')
    h1 { color: #92B8D8; }

Of course, this behaviour is not usefol only in this case: an application might
actually require you to put the static files in a precise subdirectory
irrespective of the fact that other apps might be present or a clash occur.

WSGI
====

The ``wsgi`` option will create a small module [#]_ inside ``parts``, that will
allow you to hook your application to an upstream ``wsgi`` server.

In order to have the ``buildout``, we must set the ``wsgi`` option of the
recipe to ``true``: ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... wsgi = true
    ... """)

And launch the buildout: ::

    >>> print "start\n", system(buildout)
    start
    ...
    Installing django.
    django: Generating settings in ...
    ...
    django: Creating script at .../bin/django
    Generated script '.../bin/django'.
    django: Creating script at .../parts/django/djc_recipe_django/app.py
    Generated script '.../parts/django/djc_recipe_django/app.py'.
    <BLANKLINE>

The script will then create inside ``parts/<part_name>/djc_recipe_<part_name>``
a python module containing an ``app.py`` file, which can be loaded by
``Apache`` or ``uwsgi``: ::

    >>> ls('parts', 'django', 'djc_recipe_django')
    -  __init__.py
    -  app.py
    >>> cat('parts', 'django', 'djc_recipe_django', 'app.py')
    #!...
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    import sys
    sys.path[0:0] = [
      ...
      ]
    <BLANKLINE>
    import djc.recipe.wsgi
    <BLANKLINE>
    application = djc.recipe.wsgi.main('.../parts/django/settings.py')
    <BLANKLINE>
    def app_factory(global_config, **local_config):
        """This function wraps our simple WSGI app so it
        can be used with paste.deploy"""
        return application


This will take care to inject all the needed paths into ``sys.path``, so no
further meddling should be needed.

Most *WSGI* servers do handle logging effectively by themselves, however if
this was not the case, an option to have a separate log output can be used:
``wsgi-logfile``, if set, will cause all the applicative log output to be
written to the specified file.

Let's write the buildout ::

    >>> write('buildout.cfg',
    ... """
    ... [buildout]
    ... parts = django
    ... offline = false
    ... index = http://pypi.python.org/simple/
    ... find-links = packages
    ...
    ... [django]
    ... recipe = djc.recipe
    ... project = dummydjangoprj
    ... wsgi = true
    ... wsgi-logfile = wsgi.log
    ... """)

Launch it ::

    >>> print "start\n", system(buildout)
    start
    ...
    Installing django.
    django: Generating settings in ...
    ...
    django: Creating script at .../bin/django
    Generated script '.../bin/django'.
    django: Creating script at .../parts/django/djc_recipe_django/app.py
    Generated script '.../parts/django/djc_recipe_django/app.py'.
    <BLANKLINE>

And check what changes ::

    >>> cat('parts', 'django', 'djc_recipe_django', 'app.py')
    #!...
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    import sys
    sys.path[0:0] = [
      ...
      ]
    <BLANKLINE>
    import djc.recipe.wsgi
    <BLANKLINE>
    application = djc.recipe.wsgi.main(..., logfile = '.../wsgi.log')
    <BLANKLINE>
    def app_factory(global_config, **local_config):
        """This function wraps our simple WSGI app so it
        can be used with paste.deploy"""
        return application


As you can see, the log file parameter is passed to the application: it is to
be noted that all relative paths are intended as relative to the buildout root.

.. _Tempita: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Tempita/

.. _`mr.developer`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/mr.developer

.. [#] In all truth, it tries to read it from ``.secret.txt``: that failing the
       secret code is generated and written to said file to be used
       subsequently.

.. [#] For further information, refer to Django's docs at
       http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.2/ref/settings/#email-file-path

.. [#] The small module is needed because ``uwsgi`` will refuse to load a rogue
       script, but will load a module (hence, with some ``PYTHONPATH`` magic,
       all comes along)


